[FFFFFF]The Tepid Pool:[-] Natural pool (30‘ deep) fed by a cascade from the cave above; rich growths of vegetation (reeds, lily-pads, algae); ample animal life; sound of frogs croaking. The waters of this pool are always warm, despite the ambient temperature. Mist & fog are common in the morning & evening hours. At the bottom of the pool lies a silver hemisphere (2‘ dia.) set into the stone.

The Tepid Pool (#2) – This pond plunges to a 30‘ depth directly beneath the waterfall. Its waters are warm to the touch – much warmer than would be expected in the foothills of the mountains. The water‘s warmth stimulates the growth of the flora and fauna that make the pond their home, resulting in verdant plant growth and oversized (but not giant) specimens of animal life. On cool mornings and evenings, a dense mist wafts off the water‘s surface, clouding the western edge of the canyon in fog. The banks of the pool bear the tracks of the many species of animals – both four-footed and two – that drink from its waters.

Embedded in the rocky floor of the pond and obscured by its muddy waters is a 1‘ tall hemisphere of silvered glass. This crystal is very resilient (treat as if glass like steel) and magically repels the mud and muck that would have otherwise buried it. This 2‘ diameter halforb is the second step of the cooling process detailed above. Like its bronze counterpart, this hemisphere is of solid construction and cannot be moved or pried loose. A strong current of water is drawn towards its solid surface and it acts as a slow drain to the pool. Its surface and that of the water around it is cool. It radiates magic.  

This mirror-like hemisphere returns water back to the cooling system that serves the great machine of Stonehell. Water insufficiently cooled by exposure to the open air of the canyon is chilled by this device before being teleported back to the machine‘s closed cooling system, where it magically exits from another mirrored hemisphere located below. The hemisphere can only transport water – no other material, living or non-living is affected by its magics. 
