[FFFFFF]Hot Spring Cave:[-] Humid air; steaming pool (5‘ deep) of water; stream forms waterfall at cave mouth. A pool of clear, hot water stands in the center of the cave. Unprotected exposure to the scalding-hot water does 1d2 points of damage. At the bottom of the pool lies a brass hemisphere (2‘ dia.) set into the stone.

Hot, humid air wafts from the mouth of this cave, making it seem to smoke during cold days as the steam vents into the canyon. A wide, shallow stream pours out of the cave mouth, tumbling over rocky outcroppings before splashing into the pool 80‘ below. Inside the cave lies the source of this stream: a roughly 20‘ diameter, 5‘ deep, steaming pool. While not boiling, the water is hot enough to do 1d2 points of damage if unprotected flesh is plunged into it. The water is clear, although the steam that rises off of its surface makes discerning what lies beneath its surface difficult. 

In the center of the pool, a 1‘ high brass hemisphere rises from the bottom of the basin. This 2‘ diameter protuberance is firmly attached to pool‘s bottom and cannot be pried loose or moved. The hemisphere is of solid construction and a steady flow of water emerges from its solid surface despite any visible point of egress. The hemisphere is magical and radiates an enchanted aura if detected for.

The hemisphere is one step of a cooling process that keeps an ancient machine functioning deep in Stonehell (this machine is detailed in Stonehell Dungeon Book Two). Water is sluiced through that machine‘s innards, drawing off the heat that the device generates. This heated water is then shunted into a trough which ends at a duplicate brass hemisphere to the one located here. Upon contact with that hemisphere, the hot water is teleported to this one, where it flows out into the canyon and comes to rest in the pool below. After reaching the pool, the water is cooled by natural and artificial means (see below) before returning back to the depths of the dungeon to repeat the cycle anew. 
